=========================
Friday, February 13, 2015
=========================

Filter parameters of newcomers.NewClients
=========================================

Fixed :ticket:`91`.  The filter parameters of
:class:`newcomers.NewClients
<lino_welfare.modlib.newcomers.models.NewClients>` now inherit the
parameters of :class:`pcsw.Clients
<lino_welfare.modlib.pcsw.models.Clients>`.  Added more content to
test case :ref:`welfare.tested.newcomers`.

This change might have introduced unwanted side effects which are not
yet covered by the test suite.  But it has the advantage that things
get unified. And anywhere there is still quite some testing, analysis
and documentation to do about all these filter criteria.


Automatically setting cv.Obstacle.user to the requesting user
=============================================================

My usual way would have been to write a :meth:`before_ui_save
<lino.core.model.Model.before_ui_save>` for :class:`cv.Obstacle
<lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.modlib.cv.models.Obstacle>`.

But then I discovered that I can implement this using a custom signal
:const:`pre_ui_save <lino.core.signals.pre_ui_save>`.  So my
:meth:`before_ui_save <lino.core.model.Model.before_ui_save>` is maybe
not necessary. I marked it as deprecated. And the same is maybe true
for all these signal-like methods!

One theoretical difference between signals and signal-like methods is
that application code can decide whether some previously defined
"signal handler" should be executed or not. But in practice there is
maybe no usage for this until now.

Added a new testcase:
:mod:`lino_welfare.projects.chatelet.tests.test_chatelet`.


Evaluation de la version du 06 février
======================================

TODO:

- `immersion.ContractsByClient` and `art61.ContractsByClient`:

  - column_names as in the document.
  - remove `user_asd`

- jobs.Jobs : show more columns

- rendez-vous d'évaluation automatiques : ne fonctionne pas
  correctement s'il y a deux coachings actifs en cette date.
  Lino devrait sélectionner le primaire. (vraiment?)
  En tout cas il n'y a jamais deux agents présents.

- taches automatiques par contrat:

  - se font pour l'auteur du contrat, mais là aussi il faut les memes
    règeles que pour les rendez-vous.

- polls : AnswersByResponse : html view : use bigger font size (same
  as for normal fields)

- quand j'ajoute un RAE dans ResponsesByPartner, Lino n'inscrit pas le
  partenaire. (NBN Seulement pour RAE, pas pour INI)

- "Préjudicial" -> "Préjudiciable"

- QuestionsByPoll : stay_in_grid = True. Respect stay_in_grid also for
  DuplicateRow.

- Il n'est pas possible d'encoder des textes libres

- Dans « temps de travail accepté », on ne sait en sélectionner qu’un à
  la fois alors qu’on devrait pouvoir en sélectionner plusieurs.

- Dans « Mes rendez-vous aujourd’hui »:

    - Supprimer la colonne « Attribué à »

    - Ajouter la colonne « Type d’événement » de manière à ce qu’on voit
      si c’est un entretien en interne ou en externe.

- Dans le dossier d’une personne onglet « Personne », les rendez-vous
  s'indiquent 2 x

