======================
Thursday, June 5, 2014
======================

I ran ``dos2unix`` on the files of :ref:`cosi`::

  $ go cosi
  $ find -name '*.py' | xargs dos2unix


I plan to set up an Estonian demo site for :ref:`cosi`.  New package
:mod:`lino_cosi.settings.est`.  

A fundamental problem is the list of Estonian places.  We agree that a
serious accounting softare for Estonia should include an
out-of-the-box list of cities and villages with their zip
codes. That's why we have :mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee`.
And this fixture needs a file :file:`sihtnumbrid.csv` which I used to
download from Estonian post office. I thought that they are more or
less authority on this topic.  But meanwhile they changed their name
and reorganized their web site. The new site has a `download page
<https://www.omniva.ee/ari/kiri/noudmiseni_sihtnumbrid>`_, but (1) it
doesn't work for the moment and (2) it looks as if the file structure
is going to change.  Anyway they don't look as if they are eager to
collaborate for making this database freely available.  Should I wait
until they manage their internal problems, and then adapt my
:mod:`lino.modlib.countries.fixtures.ee` to the new structure?  Or is
this the moment to start a project of publishing a free table of
Estonian places?  The fact that I am not allowed to include this file
with Lino causes miscellaneous problems.  For example I cannot write
unit tests based on this data.  How does this integrate with
Wikipedia?  The Estonian Wikipedia has done considerabl work on this
domain. But (at least for the moment) we cannot (easily) import this
information. Should I talk with `Andres
<https://et.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kasutaja:Andres>`_ about this? But
before talking to anybody, shouldn't I prepare something to make my
vision more visible to others? Do we need something like
:ref:`belref`, but for Estonia?


